Name: Alex Klen
Student Number: 20372654
User-id: ayklen
Assignment: 4


Compiling
-----------
Run "make" to build the executable rt.
The executable was compiled on gl01.
There are a few flags you can modify in the Makefile - such as number of threads to use,
whether to use anti-aliasing, and whether to draw only bounding volumes.


Running
--------
Run the rt executable with an of the lua file to render.
Note that you need to run rt while in the data directory because the lua scripts load files from the current working directory.
../rt sample.lua

Extra Features and Optimizations
---------------------------------
- Reflections – I implemented reflections by recursivly ray tracing after
  reflecting about the normal of intersection faces.
- I made my ray tracer run workers in parallel so that multi-core CPUs can
  render a scene much faster. Each ray is independent (all sharing a common
scene graph) and computationally expensivce to compute, so parallelization is a
logical optimization. You can set the number of threads it should use in the
Makefile – I have provided compiled versions for 1, 8, and 40 threads (“rt”
uses 8 threads). A comparison on “macho-cows.lua” shows that my ray tracer
takes 1:25.54 with a single thread, and 22.642 using 8 threads (on my own
quad-core i7). 
- I implemented simple anti-aliasing by averaging the results of 4 ray traces
  for each pixel. This smooths the image a little bit and decreases jagged
edges of shadows and edges. I have provided “data/sample_no_anti_aliasing.png”
for comparison with “data/sample.png”, which uses anti-aliasing. It is on by
default, but a compiler flag will turn it off (see Makefile).

Scene
------
My scene contains a rotated 3d array of spheres with mirror surfaces, two
instances of the provided small stellated dodecahedron meshes, and a scaled
cube for the base (somewhat reflective). There are red, green, and blue lights
positioned so that each shines on a different visible face of the array of
spheres. You can see specular highlights on each sphere (up to 3 each from the
lights), and also some specular highlights on the box surface at the very
bottom. The meshes at the top appear illuminated by white light (they have a
yellow-ish material) because they are being hit by all three lights (each being
a different full colour channel). At the far end of the reflective box surface,
you can see an interesting pattern of colours resulting from shadows/occlusions
of each light by the spheres. You can see the main parts reflected on the box
surface and also the spheres reflecting each other.

